Although Numeir spoke a lot about Samuel, now we have the Son of Samuel conducting the next part of the program, or the Samuel Son,
and he will present student experiences.
The theme, glorify your ministry, is based on Romans chapter 11 verse 13.
Here the Apostle Paul said, now I speak to you who are people of the nations, seeing that I am an apostle to the nations, I glorify my ministry.
Well Paul's attitude was that he viewed his ministry as an honor of the highest order.
By taking advantage of every opportunity, not giving up in the House to House ministry,
we can demonstrate that we have that same view of our ministry.
I have brother David Alexander, one of our Gilead students with me,
and that we look forward to sharing some of the experiences that our Gilead students enjoyed over the past few months.
These experiences will show the results of their glorifying their ministry.
David, would you introduce our first reenactment?
Our first reenactment started off at sea level, and then climbed to 30,000 feet.
Gentlemen, please sit down and fasten your seatbelt. We're ready to take off.
Gentlemen, please sit down.
Mama, I speak the language of the gentleman, and I would love to have.
Could you please tell them they must sit down now. We're ready to take off.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. You've saved the situation.
I did the word Bible, teach us to do, and how do you view the Bible?
That is the question of this interesting thought. I encourage you to read it, please.
Okay, thank you. I will be right back.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. You've saved the situation.
I encourage you to read it, please.
Okay, thank you. I will.
Did you know all these people?
No, but I felt that I had to help, and that is what the Bible encourages to do here.
In Matthew, chapter 7, verse 12, it's a lead, all things, therefore,
that you want men to do to you, you also must do to them.
This, in fact, is what the law and the prophets mean.
What do you think about this?
Well, this is true, but we are also selfish.
That is indeed our inclination.
But look what I found in this interesting magazine that can help us
to apply Bible principles in our lives that lead to you this paragraph.
Sure, that looks very interesting.
What beautiful results.
Thank you very much, friends, for your fine presentation.
Now, in this occasion, Brother and Gany Mano was able to place 18 pieces of literature.
He is obviously very prepared by performing just one act of kindness.
He was able to open the way to give a witness.
Yes, this helpful act was noticed by the priest on the plane,
ever not only read Jesus' words at Matthew 7-12,
that we must do to others as we would like others to do to us.
But he demonstrated them.
David, we're still at an airport.
Please let us know what's coming up next.
Our next reenactment takes place in the ground at the Custom Arrival Line of JFK Airport.
Now, once again, the thought of taking advantage of every opportunity is being highlighted.
Watch closely.
It seems that we would be here for some time waiting in line.
I could use the time to preach.
But let me first make a brief prayer.
Hi.
Hello.
Why are you visiting the US?
We are here on a business trip.
We will stay only three days, and then we will fly back to Prague.
And you? Why are you visiting the United States?
I am invited to the Watch Tower Bible School of Gilead.
Watch school of what?
Could you repeat, please?
Yes, that's the school where we study for five months of the Bible.
That sounds very interesting.
I wonder what religion is that?
I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Jehovah's Witnesses?
I have never heard about the religion like that.
Actually, I know Jehovah.
It is God's name, right?
Yes, you are right.
When I was a boy, one of my classmates told me that God's name is Jehovah.
And ever since then, I am praying to God only by His name.
Jehovah, I remember this name written on the card with books in our city.
Every morning, I pass by this card, but honestly, I have never had time to really stop and talk to those people.
You know, actually, I have something for you.
I have this track that explains our website,
JW.org.
You can find much information about God's name, Jehovah,
who he really is, and what good news he has for you.
Thank you very much. That sounds very interesting.
I think when we get back home, I will definitely stop by that card with books and talk to those people.
You will not regret it.
And have you ever wondered who God really is?
It is a good question.
I don't know.
You know, I have for you something else.
I have a brochure called Good News from God.
Listen to his entitled, Who Is God?
I'm sure you will enjoy analyzing this brochure.
Thank you very much. We will read it with pleasure.
Well, your paper seems to be in order. Welcome to the United States.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Oh, sorry. Now is my turn. I have to go.
Please check out our website.
And you can find more information about how to have a free Bible study.
Bye. Thank you. Goodbye.
Brother Samusen, what I appreciate about this experience is that Sister Estanya took the time to offer a brief prayer.
Yes. I noticed that detail too.
Being prepared by having literature is important.
But praying to Jehovah gives us the needed encouragement to go ahead and start the conversation.
Well, our next experience, David, is in no way an encouragement for our transportation department to arrive late to pick up passengers.
But let's see what Gilead students did when they found themselves in this very unusual situation.
This experience took place at the passenger pickup area at the JFK airport.
Well, there's a lot of people here.
Yeah.
But I don't see the brother to pick us up.
No.
Hey, you cannot stand over there.
Oh, okay.
Please stand over here.
Oh, sorry.
Sharon, let's hold up some tracks.
That's a good idea.
And this will also help the brother identify us.
Okay.
What is key to happy family life? Please tell me.
It's a good question, isn't it?
It's not what we think that's important.
It's what the Bible says.
And inside this tract, it says, happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it.
What do you think about that?
I was married for several years.
Then my wife cheated on me.
I have no heart-trying, trusting people.
I'm so sorry to hear that.
A happy and lasting marriage doesn't happen automatically.
But it is possible.
The key in the Bible is love for God.
Well, that might be true.
But now I have to go to direct more passengers.
Okay, no problem.
Let me leave you this tract.
And on the back, you'll find our website.
When you get home, you can go online.
There's many wonderful articles from the Bible there for families.
Thank you.
Wow.
He was nice.
Yes.
Actually, I noticed a lot of people looking at these tracks.
Do you have any more of these tracks?
I want to give to the flight attendants over there so they can read while they are waiting.
Oh, sure.
We have many different subjects.
I want them all.
Okay.
You should read these tracks.
It's about the Bible.
Where did you get these?
From that couple over there.
Okay.
Hello.
Oh, hello.
I love reading the Bible.
Really?
Yeah.
I just finished working a flight from China.
And on the flight, one of the passengers has given me this tract in Chinese.
But I can't read this.
Oh, wow.
This is the same organization.
Oh.
I have exactly the same tract for you in English.
So you can read it.
Okay.
And on the back, you'll find out website jw.org.
You can find Bible articles and Bible based articles in 700 languages.
Oh, that's a good idea.
Sure you'll enjoy looking at it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Excuse me.
I would like to read the Bible too.
Can I have one of those?
Oh, sure you can.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And on the back, you'll notice a website jw.org.
You can find a lot more information about the Bible.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Such good territory here at the airport.
Are you Danny and Sharon?
Yes.
Oh.
I am here to pick you up.
Oh, thank you.
Sorry I was late.
No problem.
We had a great time here preaching.
Let's share with you the experience.
What a wise and practical use.
Danny and Sharon made of the unexpected time that they had on their hands.
Yes, they certainly did.
And we know time is a very precious commodity.
But because they were prepared, they were able to use the time wisely
and they had good results.
We too can also have good results if we take advantage of every opportunity.
Well, now we'd like to introduce Brother Tamo Kahnstein.
He's from Finland, attending our 139th class.
Tamo, when you arrived at Patterson,
you had some doubts about your ability to start a Bible study.
Would you tell us about your feelings?
Yes, when I arrived here, I was somewhat skeptical
whether I would be able to start and conduct a Bible study during these five months.
I reasoned Saturday mornings would be difficult to find people at home.
So, at some point, something changed.
What was it?
Well, it was my attitude and prayers.
After a month or so, I thought, well, Jesus not only commanded us to preach,
but also to teach.
So, if I don't put for effort to start a Bible study, I don't pray about it,
I would be disobeying Jesus.
Later, when one young man displayed interest,
the challenge was to find him home again.
Well, I decided to pray about these two.
I said, Jehovah, you are reading the hearts of the people.
And if you are drawing this man to yourself,
could you please help me to visit him at times when he is at home?
Well, what difference did you change attitude and prayer make?
Well, within a month, I was conducting a Bible study,
and I was able to conduct the up till now,
and now I have passed the study to a local brother.
Excellent. Thank you very much, Tamu.
Appreciate those feelings.
David, isn't it true, as Tamu's experience shows
that having the right attitude opens the doors to talk about Jehovah?
Yes, that's certainly true.
And we remember that we are witnesses on every occasion,
even when we eat at the restaurant.
Let's watch closely the positive results some of our guilders' students had
when they enjoyed the meal.
Wow, that was a lowly meal.
Oh, yeah, it's like being at home in Turkey.
I love my spices.
Why don't we give the waitress some literature?
She was really nice.
I've got some English magazines and an English brochure.
That sounds like a great idea.
I wonder if she speaks Arabic, too.
Does anyone have any Arabic literature?
Yeah, I have the latest magazines.
Ah, that would be great.
Hi.
I just wanted to thank you very much for that beautiful meal
and your wonderful service.
We all love the food.
Are you welcome? Welcome anytime.
My name is Faye.
Can I ask what your name is?
Lemya.
Lemya. Nice to meet you, Lemya.
Nice to meet you, too.
Have you been here long?
I've been working here about three months now.
Three months? That's nice.
And do you have any family?
I have a daughter.
You have a daughter?
I keep a picture of her here.
You want to have a look at it?
Yes.
Oh, wow.
She's beautiful.
She looks just like you.
She's adorable.
I love her very much.
But you know, she's been sick lately.
And I'm a little bit worried about her.
And that's why I've got to work long hours
to care for my family.
I'm really sad to hear that, Lemya.
Wouldn't it be lovely to live in a world
where there'd be no sickness
or even have the stress of making it living?
Oh, yes. That would be great.
You know, Lemya, I had these magazines.
Do you speak Arabic or English?
I can read both.
I have both.
Oh, these?
They're very good.
I love them.
Oh, that's nice.
I'm great. You like them.
But can I ask you something?
Yes.
Why did you choose me to talk to?
Why?
I saw your beautiful smile.
And I knew that you needed hope.
Oh, you did see the pain in my heart, didn't you?
Well, Lemya, God saw the pain in your heart.
But what I'd love to leave with you
is this brochure, good news from God.
This will give you comfort.
And I'd love to come back next week
to get your thoughts on it.
Oh, sure. Come back anything.
Okay.
So here, brothers,
I enjoyed physical food,
but also did not miss the opportunity
to impart spiritual food.
Let's see what happened one week later.
Hi, Lemya.
Good to see you again.
Good to see you too.
Do you have five minutes?
I can share some points from the brochure.
I left you last week.
Of course, of course. Come and sit here.
Thank you.
So just after that paragraph,
I particularly wanted to share this scripture with you.
Jeremiah chapter 29 verse 11.
Would you like to read that please?
Yes.
For I will know the thoughts
that I am thinking towards you
declares Jehovah,
thoughts of peace and not of calamity
to give you a future and a hope.
Thank you.
Can you see Lemya from there
what God wants to give you?
Peace.
Peace?
Anything else?
Oh, hope.
Can you imagine, Lemya,
the God of the universe wants to give you
peace, hope and a future?
That is so beautiful.
I want to read this again later.
That would be lovely.
Would you like a Bible?
I would love one.
What I know I bring one next time I come.
Sure.
All right. We'll see you then.
Bye.
Well done sisters.
Well, we're happy to report.
We're happy to report that this study is progressing.
Yes, and this highlights the value
of not only leaving literature with people,
but of being conscious
to offer Bible studies.
David,
rather than just leaving literature
in an informal setting,
what could a publisher say
that might lead to a study?
Well, we could say Jehovah's Witnesses
offer free home Bible studies
in your local area.
If you're interested,
you can visit the website
jw.org,
watch a video
about how the Bible study is conducted
and request one.
Well, that sounds good.
By being Bible study conscious,
we do glorify our ministry.
Another way to take advantage
of every opportunity is
not to decide for others
if they're too busy,
or that they may not be interested
in the Bible at all.
The next experience
will illustrate this.
Hello.
My name is Danny.
This is my wife Sharon.
Hi.
I'm Mrs. Wong.
Nice to meet you, Mrs. Wong.
Where are you from?
I'm from China,
but I was in Hong Kong.
Really?
We live in Hong Kong.
Okay.
We're actually here
for a five-month Bible study course.
Oh, good.
Have you ever read the Bible before?
Yes, I like it very much.
Sometimes people come here to eat
and they live in magazine
about the Bible for me to read.
That's wonderful.
Has anyone ever offered you a Bible study?
No, but I'd love to have that one.
Really?
Well, what we have here
is a Bible in Chinese for you.
Okay.
And this is a brochure
that helps us to understand the Bible.
So my wife and I
can come back next week
and we can discuss
less than one together.
Sure, thank you.
Thank you.
Say it again.
What a fine example for all of us.
Now, although the lady was busy,
a brief witness was given
and a return visit was arranged.
Let's now see one week's pass
how this interest was followed up.
Good morning.
Is Mrs. Wong here?
Well, I'm sorry.
My wife is not here,
but she's coming back soon.
So you're welcome to wait for her here.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Actually, we left this Bible
for your wife to read last week.
Have you ever read the Bible before?
Yes, I studied the Bible
when I was growing up.
I like it very much.
Really?
Well, this brochure helps us understand the Bible.
Can I show you how it works?
Oh, yes, sure.
Oh, great.
We'll have a look here and listen one.
Hi, Mrs. Wong.
Hi, good to see you again.
You too.
I was thinking after we discussed the brochure today,
I downloaded some videos on my tablet
from our website, JDW.org.
Okay.
In Cantonese for you and your children.
Oh, good.
Would it be okay if we sit here?
Yes, it's it.
Okay.
I want to see the videos.
As a review, Mr. Wong,
did you notice in Jeremiah 29 verse 11,
who is it that promises to give us a hope in the future?
I think it is Jehovah.
That's right.
But do you know who Jehovah is?
Hmm.
Son of God.
Well, let's look at what the Bible says.
Actually, if you have a look at the scripture here
in Jeremiah chapter 10 and verse 10,
who is Jehovah?
Let me see.
Oh.
Jehovah is truly God.
He is a living God.
Oh, you know, I got it wrong.
I didn't know this.
The living God is Jehovah.
I have no idea about this.
That's right.
So Jehovah is the true God.
But then who is Jesus Christ?
Well, if you have a look at this scripture
in Matthew chapter 16 verse 16,
who is Jesus?
He is the son of living God.
That's right. Good.
So Jehovah is the father.
He is the true God.
Jesus is his son.
They're not the same.
In fact, in the scripture in John chapter 17 and verse 3,
you will notice that God sent Jesus to the earth.
So can Jesus be God?
No.
So according to this verse,
what must we do to enjoy this beautiful future
of everlasting life?
I says we must come to know Jehovah God
and he's son Jesus.
Excellent.
You got the point.
Let's continue in lesson one.
Wow.
I enjoyed these videos very much.
They're so helpful.
You know, it's really hard to teach my children
to show respect and avoid bad words.
It's not easy these days, is it?
Yeah.
The Bible principles can really help our families.
I'm surprised that your children said they saw
two of these Caleb videos at their church camp.
Next week to show you how we can use this publication
to teach your children more Bible lessons.
Sure.
I look forward to it.
Thank you very much.
Really enjoy that.
So please come back again next week to study more.
For sure.
See you next week.
And this Bible study is also progressing well.
Very good.
And how good to see that the Gilead students did not assume
that the restaurant owners were too busy,
nor because of their background that they would not be interested
in the Bible.
Well, David, we've seen the good results of taking advantage
of every opportunity in these different settings.
But how did our Gilead students do in our primary opportunity
to glorify God in the House to House Ministry?
Well, even in territories that have been frequently worked,
good results can be achieved if we have persistence
and calling back on all interests.
Let's now see an example of this in our next experience.
We had a very nice day in the ministry this morning.
Yes, what an awesome morning.
This magazine is just perfect for this territory.
Almost everyone accepted it.
Yeah, it was great.
So do you have any other activity here?
Yes, I would like to take Amber with me on a call.
That's okay with you.
It sounds good to me.
That's good.
I would really like to follow up again
on a lady from Ecuador.
What happened on the call?
She said that she likes her publications,
but the only problem is she's very busy.
We tried already five times to find her,
but she was never at home.
And because she's so busy,
we told her that the good news was she was perfect for her
because in just a few minutes,
she could get the answer of her valuable questions.
We asked her.
What was the question she would like the answer the most
and she said all of them.
So we started out the first lesson.
Wow, that sounds like an amazing call.
I hope you get her home.
We too.
Well, it seems like we're ready to go.
Good.
See you there.
Hola.
Hello, Valkyrie.
And I see you again.
It's to see you too. How's your being?
Well, busy. You know, I'm always on the run.
Yes. I really enjoy your discussion last time.
And if you have a minute,
we can continue in the brochure.
Who will lift off?
Yes, I have a minute.
Okay, to begin,
we can read this scripture together.
Would you like to read what it says?
Sure.
I have an Spanish Bible in my tablet.
Maybe you want to use it.
Oh, Kvien is an espanyol.
And what application is this?
This is a free JW Library Application from Jehovah's Witnesses.
Very interesting.
Can you install this application on my phone?
Yeah, sure.
And meanwhile, we can read this scripture together.
Sure, the Bible is very interesting for me.
What a very beautiful example of persistence.
Thank you very much, friends, for this presentation.
Now, in this experience,
the interested person was not home five times.
But the Gillian students did not give up.
And it resulted in the Bible study being started.
Yes, our Gillian students in every class
prove that even in well-worked territory,
by persistence, we can have good results.
David, what happened to Salveena and Eva,
the other sisters that were continuing in their ministry?
Well, it seems they're just about to arrive at their return visit.
Let's take a look and see what happens.
So, Eva, I'm not sure who I'll get home today.
I've pretty well met the whole family, I think.
Really?
Yes.
My first call I met Sarah,
and we had a very nice conversation.
Then I got Joyce, and then Michael,
and also nice conversation.
And then last I got John.
But this time, I sure hope to get Sarah home,
because I promise to share a point from the Bible Teachbook.
That would be really nice.
Okay, what don't we try?
Let's see what happens.
Here we go.
Hello.
Who?
Is Sarah home today?
No, she's not a home.
She's not. What about Joyce?
No, sorry.
Okay, and Michael?
Also not here.
No, okay, and John.
No, that's my dad.
Okay.
He wanted to visit his father that is dying.
Oh, what's...
He wanted to see him one more time before he dies.
Well, I'm so sorry to hear that.
Losing a loved one is not an easy thing.
It's very sad and very hard to deal with.
Yeah, you know, the last time I was here,
I shared a thought from the book, this publication here.
I have one for you too.
This is your copy.
Thank you.
And there's a very comforting hope.
Hope that the Bible offers us on page four of that book.
And it's a scripture found in Revelation 21.
Notice what God promises.
He says here that he will wipe out every tear from their eyes
and death will be no more.
Neither will morning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
Can you imagine no more death?
I lay that.
When I was younger, I had more faith in God.
And I was feeling closer to Him.
But now, I want to feel in the same way again.
You know, it's good to hear that you want to feel the same way again.
And you can, by studying God's word,
you can have that same feeling and draw close to God.
Actually, my friend here, Eba, has a tablet
which you would like to show your brief video
of why study the Bible.
Eba, would you help?
Sure, if I may, I would like to show you the video
why I just study a Bible.
From the moment we can talk, we ask questions.
Why is the sky blue?
What are the stars made of?
Why do bad things happen?
You will not believe this.
But last night, I was praying to God.
Please, God, tell me.
There are so many bad things going on in my life.
And now you are here at my door talking about God.
I don't think this is coincidence.
Why?
I want to feel close to God again.
You know, we appreciate your heartfelt expression
for expressing yourself in that way.
I would love to return with my husband
and so that we can continue our conversation
to see how you can draw close to God.
Please do.
As excellent example, friends.
So here, sister was now able to give a witness
to a fifth person in this household.
Have you been prepared to speak about Jehovah?
Wherever we go, it resulted in a Bible study
with this young man.
Yes, and our ministry certainly is a wonderful treasure.
As we've seen by taking advantage of every opportunity,
as well as sharing in the House to Housework,
we glorify our ministry.
Both avenues of the ministry require good preparation
in what we will say and what we will share with them,
either a scripture or perhaps some literature.
We hope that these experiences encourage all of you
to contribute or to continue zealously in your ministry.
We were only able to present a few
of the good experiences our Gilead students had
over the past five months.
We are very much appreciative of their diligence,
their hard work.
And we also appreciate and thank the help of all
who participated in sharing in these real experiences.
Well, the next presentation is by Brother Daniel Fensum
and he will interview students.
Happy are the people who serve Jehovah.
That's his theme.
Psalm 144, 15 says,
Happy is the people whose God is Jehovah,
and Gilead students are a happy lot.
It's not surprising really because, along with all of us,
they're serving the one that the Apostle Paul talked about
in 1 Timothy 111 as the happy God.
So it's my pleasure to introduce to you
four happy and nervous students.
Sister Shirley Doody, who serves at the branch
in the Solomon Islands.
Brother Noah Dura Singham, who serves at the Sri Lanka branch office.
Brother Daniel and Sister Natalie Lorenzo,
who come from the branch in Congo, Kinshasa.
Sister Doody is part of a translation team.
Can you tell us please, what does your work involve?
Before a team starts translating an article,
they have to get the spirit of it.
This means to understand it really well
and to find out why that article was written.
If it's a study article,
the preparation is similar to how we would study,
prepare for our weekly, watch our study,
but the team will also be looking for language specifics.
An example is, if an illustration
will not be understood by our readers,
we can ask for permission to either change the illustration
or maybe tweak it a little so that our readers
will get the point being made.
When we prepare well and translate the article
in a clear, accurate and natural way,
our brothers and sisters will enjoy
the same spiritual food enjoyed by Jehovah's people everywhere.
Thank you. Can you tell us why does your work bring you happiness?
The Solomon Islands speech and language
is mainly a spoken language,
so the translation department had to
establish the written form of the language.
This meant setting out grammar rules,
making important decisions on the spelling of words,
expressions, formal and informal things, and so on.
It was exciting to be pioneers of the written form of the language.
Now, seeing how far the language has come
and how much our translation has improved,
thanks to the training we received
from Jehovah's organization,
those are some of the things that give me
a lot of happiness in my assignment.
Thank you for those expressions.
Brother Jura Singham, you work in the service department.
Can you tell us a little about the work that you do, please?
I'm helping in organizing
the unassigned territory campaigns
and providing territory boundaries to the congregations.
And also, I'm answering the telephone calls
from the field, especially from the special pioneers.
And I help a little in organizing the conventions
and theocratic schools.
Very good. Can you tell us what is your work
bring you happiness?
Yes, helping the brothers in the field
to do their best for the praise of Jehovah.
It gives me a good feeling.
And especially when I hear many good reports from the field,
I really rejoice with my brothers.
And some reports bring me some past memories.
For example, me accompanied with my father
traveled to many war-affected areas
in the northern part of Sri Lanka and some islands.
And now we are hearing many good reports from those areas.
That really brings me so much joy.
For example, to one small group,
my father put me in front of the bicycle
and traveled for 12 miles.
And I remember sometimes we got down from the bicycle
and we need to hide for the bombing aircrafts.
And recently, when I see the congregation application form
for that group, it really brought me so much joy.
And now that congregation can ask for another group.
And seeing these growths in the field,
it really gives me so much joy.
Thank you for sharing that with us.
Sister Lorenzo works with the LDC office.
Can you tell us what specifically it is your work involved?
So we have around 20 teams of construction workers
building kingdom halls and remote translation offices
all over Congo.
And every two weeks, they prepare a report
of their accounts and send it to the branch.
So it comes to our office.
And with a team of other sisters,
I share in checking those reports.
We check the calculations.
We assign the expenses to the right project
and to the right category.
And at the end of the process,
we're able to calculate the final cost of kingdom halls
once all the accounts is completed.
So you crunch numbers all day?
I do.
And can you tell us how does your work bring you happiness?
Well, it's opened my eyes to aspects of the kingdom work
that I knew almost nothing about before coming to Bethel.
Learning about the challenges faced by these construction teams
has been a real eye opener.
Sometimes they can be away from telephone network,
away from access to medical care.
And they have enormous difficulties in transporting materials
to build kingdom halls in very remote locations.
So seeing their spirit of self-sacrifice
and their hard work puts my own difficulties
into perspective.
And also seeing the way that eventually
all the obstacles are overcome to complete these projects
convinces me that this can only be done with Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
And so true.
Brother Lorenzo, you work there in the service department.
Can you please tell us a little about your work?
So the main part of my work has been helping
with the healthcare needs of special pioneers
and circuit overseers and their wives.
So this involves receiving phone calls
regarding any situation they may be facing
and looking into the best way to find treatment for them
alongside the medical team in Bethel.
And also we help in covering their medical expenses.
Can you tell us what joy do you get from your work?
Well, depending on the situations,
sometimes the work can be very busy at times.
But on several occasions, brothers and sisters
have said that by just receiving a phone call or a letter
they felt Jehovah was looking after them
and that reassured them.
So it's rewarding for me to see how brothers
and sisters express their gratitude for Jehovah's Care
through the work we do in Bethel.
Thank you.
Sister Deity, you've faced some challenges
that could have robbed you of happiness in serving Jehovah.
Could you tell us what those challenges were
and how you've maintained your joy in service?
In June of last year, our family received the news
that my father had staged for cancer
and only had months to live.
That was devastating.
When I offered to leave Bethel to help take care of him,
this was what he said to me.
Surely your mom and I have already given you to Jehovah.
We have no intention of taking you back.
You just stay where you are.
Then five months later in November,
I received my invitation to attend Gilead.
Of course, my parents were so happy and I was overjoyed.
But because of my father's situation,
I told him I was willing to ask the brothers
if I could come to a later class.
His answer to me again was this,
do you think Jehovah did not know my situation
when he gave you this invitation?
Don't worry, he will take care of me and your mother.
Three weeks before I left home to come to Gilead,
my dear father passed away.
He was faithful to the end and he was right.
But Jehovah was taking care of him
in the safest place in the universe.
That had already planned his resurrection party
and I promised him.
I would tell him about my Gilead experiences at that party.
One of the many things that helped me during that very difficult time
was keeping up with my spiritual routine
and of course much supplication.
I told Jehovah everything from my concerns, my fears,
my worries, I told him the big things
to the everyday little things.
I personally experienced the peace of heart
and mind that only Jehovah can give.
That hardship also taught me this.
Whatever happens in our life,
if we continue serving Jehovah faithfully,
the blessing he has in store for us
will exceed anything we could have ever imagined.
Thank you so much for sharing that with us.
Brother Lorenzo, you faced a specific challenge
that could have brought you of joy too.
Could you tell us what that challenge was
and then what helped you to overcome it?
At times, I've had to deal with feelings of discouragement
related to various situations.
For example, it happened that I felt discouraged
because of adapting to Bethel's life
after spending several beautiful years in the field in Congo
or just dealing with imperfection,
whether my own or the one visible around me.
I realized that focusing too much on the source of discouragement
would the time make me lose sight of the bigger picture
and why I was doing things
and sometimes I would have the feeling
that I was just struggling on my own.
Among other things, one thing that really helped me
was my overseers in the department
and also other brothers, even from the branched committee,
who took the time to talk and listen
and sometimes dropping everything for a while just to do that.
And I saw Jehovah's hand in that
because these brothers are very busy
with all their responsibilities.
But still, they behaved like shepherds and friends towards me
and not just like overseers dealing with technical matters
for their department.
And that really helped me to make the difference.
It helped me to refocus, take a step back
and I'm sure that was Jehovah's way to pick me up
in these more difficult times.
Thank you for your honest comments.
Sister Lorenzo, what lessons have you learned
at Gilead that will help you to maintain your joy
in serving Jehovah?
Well, studying in Jehovah's dealings
with different individuals has made me realize
even more how merciful and reasonable
and kind Jehovah is with us.
And we learned about Elijah when he was depressed
and discouraged, Jehovah repeatedly listened to him.
He reassured him by speaking to him in a calm low voice.
And he gave him the rest and the food
that he needed to cope with his assignment.
Another one that touched me was the case of Jehoshaphat.
We learned that at least twice he fell into the same weakness.
He first of all helped Ahab and then later Ahaziah.
But interestingly, when Jehovah summed up his record,
he said, Jehoshaphat did what was right in Jehovah's eyes.
So it struck me how deeply Jehovah understands us
and rejoices not only over good actions,
but even good reactions inside our hearts.
I can see that Jehovah is very eager to look for the good in us.
And I realize how proud he must be
when we do the same for others.
Thank you. Good points.
Brother Lorenzo, could you tell us what did attending Gilead
help you to learn about yourself?
Well, Gilead has made me realize that I had a limited understanding
of what displaying the footage of the spirit really involves
as we all are trying, I've been trying to display these qualities.
But in class we learn that there is a difference between displaying the footage of the spirit
and the natural ability one may have to show certain qualities.
For example, one may be very patient when it comes to very good friends
or when everything is going well.
But then what happens when it's not so easy?
Well, we tend to be less patient.
And sometimes we find reasons not to be patient at all.
So in class we learn that Jehovah expects us
to display the footage of the spirit on demand,
when the situation demands it and not when it's convenient for us.
And this is only possible if we have the habit of relying daily
on Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
At that point we display the footage of the spirit
and not just the footage of our own effort, which is not so consistent,
particularly when times are difficult.
So this made me realize how much more I need to rely daily
on Jehovah's Holy Spirit, taking the time to meditate on His Word daily
and setting time aside to pray specifically about the challenges our face.
And hopefully this will help me to deal in the better way
with the situation that tests spiritual qualities.
Thank you, very true. Brother Jura Singham, can you tell us what lessons
you learned at Gilead that will help you to maintain your joy in serving Jehovah?
I learned that my joy is not dependent on where I serve but who myself.
I learned the wonderful qualities of Jehovah in His dealings with His people,
His love and mercy towards His slides, His forgiveness, loyalty,
and love towards David.
Already I know these accounts, but during the class I felt I am traveling
with the Israelites, I was with David.
The instructors actually took us to that particular situation,
seeing Jehovah's qualities from that situation gave me so much joy
because I am also serving that wonderful God, we are a vice.
So I am sure if I have Jehovah in front of me by studying His Word
as I did in Gilead, I can always find joy.
Thank you for those good comments.
Sister Doody, what did you learn at Gilead that will help you
maintain your joy?
The focus of Gilead now is to strengthen and stabilize Jehovah's organization.
And the main way we can do this is to strengthen and deepen our own love for Jehovah and His people.
Gilead took me to places I've never been in the Bible.
One of the most outstanding things I've learned is the depth of Jehovah's love
for us in perfect humans.
Another lesson I learned is this, it matters to Jehovah how we treat others.
If we treat them how He would in any given situation, He will always reward us.
The reason He created us is to serve Him and to develop a close relationship with Him.
So if I am obedient to His leadings and if I work hard to imitate His example in showing love
and empathy to my brothers and sisters, that is a guarantee that I will be happy in my service to Him.
Thank you very much for your comments.
Your comments have highlighted some important factors in our maintaining our joy in serving Jehovah just to recap.
Happiness comes from helping others to serve Jehovah, that's obvious.
It's sustained by knowing that Jehovah understands us, as you were saying, and overlooks our imperfections.
And I love the comment, happiness is dependent not on where we serve, but on whom we serve.
Psalm 146 5 says, happy is the one who has the God of Jacob as His helper, whose hope is in Jehovah His God.
It's our hope and prayer that Jehovah help you to continue to find happiness as you serve Him in your assignments.
Well, we appreciate this presentation very much.
And now if you wish to stand, you can, and we will sing another song together.
The song number 74, the theme is the joy of Jehovah, the joy of Jehovah.
It's based on Nehemiah chapter 8 verse 10, song 74.